PAUL LEWIS: Hello again, folks.
Now let's talk about media.
And I think maybe
two episodes ago I
explained about DASH
and MSE and HLS--
right.
So I've been making
another prototype.
In fact, to be honest with you,
I'm quite a way on with the
build.
But I was away at BlinkOn
in the States last week,
and so the diaries are lagging
behind reality a little bit.
But we'll come onto
that in a while.
What I want to do is I want to
talk, as I say, about media.
I talked about DASH
and MSE and HLS.
And I've been making a prototype
using the Shaka Player.
So let's talk about
that first of all.
Why would I use Shaka Player?
Because if you've
got MSE and you're
swapping between different
quality versions of your video,
you have to do things like
tracking the bandwidth.
You have to figure out
where you can switch and get
the next segment of your video
and all these kinds of things.
And it's actually a
tremendous amount of work
that I don't think
is worth doing
when you can get the
Shaka Player for 43
kilobytes gzipped.
Now it feels to me like that's
really small for what is
actually doing on your behalf.
You should actually have a
look through all the docs
and everything.
In fact we'll link to it in
the show notes about the Shaka
Player and where you can get
it and have a look at the demo
and all these kind of things.
There's loads.
It's really quite
small for what it is.
And I felt like, you
know what, actually it's
got loads of unit tests and
it's just-- it's properly done.
So that's what I've been using--
right.
So with that in
place, how actually
would we use the Shaka Player?
That's what has been
on my mind and that's
what I've been working on.
So let's have a look
at what's on my screen.
So if I've got a bunch
of FFmpeg commands.
I should explain what
I'm going to try and do.
I'm going to start with a video.
I've been starting with one
video that's running at HD.
And then what I wanted to do was
make different quality versions
of this.
So I'm using FFmpeg.
You see on screen I've
got the FFmpeg commands.
Which is just-- I mean,
they're sort of reverse
engineered from looking around
at documentation and kind
of other ways of doing things.
I just chose like a
720, a 540, and a 360.
But let me just show you this.
There is a page on
the YouTube help
that covers live encoder
settings, but nonetheless,
encoder settings,
bitrates, and resolutions.
So for example, they're saying
if you going to do 1080p video,
you probably want
it 1,920 by 1,080--
big surprise.
But bitrate would be 3,000
to 6,000 bits per second.
So were I doing this
for real and not
just kind of in
placeholder mode--
sort of like oh, let's just
do a few versions, just
see how this works--
I would probably be
following something
like this to kind of go, right,
that's what a 1080p looks like.
That's what 720p should
have, 480, and so
on all the way down to the ones
that I care about the most.
So, I'm just running FFmpeg,
just making a bunch of these,
like three different
variants of my video.
The next thing I'm
using is a thing
called the Shaka Packager.
And what the Shaka
Packager does--
and it is quite a mouthful
to say, Shaka Packer.
It feels like it just has a
nice little, "taka, taka, ta."
I really like it.
I'm going to say it
one time for you.
Shaka Packager, there you are.
What it does is it
takes the videos
that you've got, all the
different variations,
like the 720p, the 540, 360,
and you give it a profile,
so whether it's live
streaming or video on demand.
I'm doing on demand, not even
thought about live streaming.
You tell it where you want it
to output the DASH manifest,
because that's what it's
going to do for you.
It can take in all
the video and so on,
and it's going to
split things out
to video tracks, audio tracks,
different qualities, blah,
blah, blah.
And you tell it how much, for
example, you want it to buffer,
which in my case I'm saying
three seconds would be good.
Just get me three
seconds up front.
Further down the line, there
will probably be some dancing
that I need to do there around
prebuffering video content so
that, for example, we can give
you a flying start with video.
But I haven't really got my
head around that space yet.
Like, how do we get
the first five seconds
of the video primed
by a service worker
so that we can just
play instantly?
Haven't really
thought about that.
And in the DASH
manifesto you can just
say, hey you know what, when you
first load this video, just try
and get the first three
seconds off the network.
That's one thing.
And then segment
duration that you
see here is, as I
understand it, is how often
you can switch qualities.
So I'm saying every three
seconds, if you need to,
you can switch qualities.
This to the Shaka
Player through the DASH
manifest, you can switch
every three seconds.
What's important about that
is when you reverse back up
and look at the video
calls, you see here
that there's this keyint,
min-keyint, no-scenecut.
What we need to do when
we take our original video
and we turn it into the
different quality versions,
we actually have to put
these things called iframes--
not iframes like we would--
they're different iframes.
They're iframes but they're not
iframes, you know what I mean?
They're just--
they're video frames.
They're keyframes.
That's what they are.
So we need a keyframe.
So in my case I'm doing
it every 24 frames, which
means, because it's a 24
frames per second video,
I'm getting a keyframe
every second, right?
So every time we hit
one of these keyframes
is a savepoint at which we
could switch to another quality.
So the segment duration should,
if I understand this correctly,
be a multiple of the keyframes.
So if I've got a
keyframe every second,
I could switch every two
seconds, four seconds,
five seconds, as long as
it's a multiple of what
my keyframe value is.
Does that make sense?
I hope so.
But I have a segment
duration of three seconds.
That's what I'm saying.
What I also do, as
you'll see here,
is I actually do three more
packages, one for the 720,
one for the 540,
one from the 360,
because I was just interested
in whether I might need
separate manifests for the
offline stuff, which I'm
going to come onto shortly--
right.
Woo.
So, taken the video, turned it
into three different quality
versions.
It's the same
production you'd do--
you'd go through
that YouTube help
and just kind of be, like,
OK, I need like five or 10
different versions and so on.
And you probably just set up a
pipeline for processing videos.
And then we're going to package
them up into a DASH manifest
or have a DASH manifest which
points to all these things.
Let me show you one
of those looks like--
sample-manifest-full,
that's the one.
So this is what the Shaka
Packager outputs for us.
And you can see that there's--
I mean, there's loads in
here, and it's a bunch of XML.
But here's the
minimum buffer time,
which is that three
seconds that I set.
How long the video is-- so the
media presentation duration
is 71 seconds in this case.
And then inside here,
you'll see that there's
these things, these adaptation
sets and these representations.
But you'll see what's crucially
important here is that you've
got a representation for
the 640 by 360, 960 by 540,
and 1,280 by 720.
So you can start to see
that it's listing out
all the different
qualities of video
that you can actually
use for playback, which
tallies entirely with what
I passed to the packager
in the first instance.
And it has really
interesting things
like the amount of bandwidth
that that particular video
quality is going to need,
the codecs it's using,
a bunch of other stuff as well.
And to be honest there's
a bunch of stuff in here
I don't fully understand,
like the initialization range.
Not quite sure what that is.
It's quite exciting.
I'm sure you'll agree.
Maybe not.
I don't know.
And then further down, we
also have audio configurations
as well.
So again, we've got
360, 540, and 720 audio.
I have a feeling that in
reality, you probably only just
want like one audio
track, something that's
like an MP3 or an AAC or--
probably the video
quality, I reckon,
is going to change
a lot more and be
the one that's
the more bandwidth
sensitive than the
audio, is my guess.
So you might just
be like, well, it's
going to take one
audio track, and I'll
have loads of different
qualities of video.
But I don't know, I'm
still figuring a lot
of this stuff out for myself.
Right, so let's take a
look at some of the code
to actually take
that DASH manifest
and put it into use
with the Shaka Player.
So this is the code, which
is not particularly neat.
I'll give you the heads up.
It is very much prototype code.
But hopefully we
can just kind of
pick out the bits
that make sense
for the particular context.
Here we go.
So we have this initPlayer
function that I've got here.
And what we do is we
wrap a video element
in the shaka.Player.
It kind of makes a
wraparound and starts
kind of giving us additional
things that we can do.
But we can also talk to the
video directly if we need to
and tell to dot play and seek
and all those kind of-- like
dot current time
and all those things
that you normally
do with a video.
So it's kind of nice actually.
It's a really nice
way of working
that you just kind of
still predominantly
can just listen to events
from the video player.
But when you're actually setting
it up and doing playback,
the Shaka Player stuff
kicks in and switches
all the different
qualities for you.
It's really cool and I
actually really like it.
So, the thing we do is
we give it the manifest.
So the manifest that we
created with the Shaka Packager
we can hand to the
player, the Shaka Player.
And a lot of the API
is promise-based.
So we call it with the
URL for the manifest.
And then when it's loaded,
it loads the manifest
and the first
little bit of video
across all the qualities listed.
So it kind of gets the first few
seconds of the 720 and the 540
and the 360, whatever
versions you go.
Does that, and then it
fires the callback for the--
fires the dot then of
the promise that says,
OK, you're good to go.
So when you get that--
now you can see I actually
have a bit more code
going on here, which we'll
talk about in a minute,
because I've been trying to
get it to work offline as well.
Been successful in that, at
least partially successful.
So we'll talk
about that as well.
But, you can then start calling
dot play, and that will work.
So let me just show you
what that looks like.
So--
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Hello, I don't know--
PAUL LEWIS: Don't talk Paul.
So as you can see, on my
screen, there is the video.
And actually if I go
to the Network tab,
you can see it's
requesting-- there's
a moment in time it's requesting
the 360 video, 540, 720.
It's decided that my
bandwidth, because it's
coming from localhost, my
bandwidth can support this 720,
and off it goes.
[END PLAYBACK]
PAUL LEWIS: Let me
show you this as well.
This is quite interesting.
It makes what we
call range requests.
So the request itself
only has a request
and therefore only
has a request.
No, the request has
a range in there,
which is rather than saying
give me all the video at once,
it's saying, I want this byte
range to that byte range.
And the Shaka Player figures
out that range request
itself based on, I
guess, the bandwidth
and how big the segments are.
And it goes, well,
I guess I need
that number bytes next to make
that next chunk of the video.
So it makes this range request.
There are other ways to do it.
You can, as I
understand it, instead
of having one big MP4 file or
whatever video file you've got,
WebM or whatever, you
can also do it in chunks
and actually have
individual files.
And that's also a way to do it.
I've gone for one
big file because I
think I'm going to have to
pass one big video file across
for chromecasting later on.
So it just made sense for me.
I was just like, I'm just
going to have one big video
and make little chunks,
range requests off that.
And as I say, that's working.
So we make one of
these range requests.
And the server-- the
response from the server is--
it's over here, and
it looks pretty tiny.
But it's basically just those--
you can see the size of it.
I mean, the original file
is much bigger than that.
But you can see that you just
get, say, 477k of the video
or however much of the
video it thinks it needs.
So that all works.
And you can see as well that the
bar here in the controls only
fills up with the
amount it's buffered.
So all good.
That's working just fine.
Now let me show
you what actually
happens if we try it again.
But this time, I'm going to
throttle the network connection
back down so regular 3G.
So probably, as a guess, it
will start asking for the 720.
Yeah, you see it start
asking for the 720 video.
But soon enough I
reckon it's going
to drop down and ask for
the 360 when it figures out
that actually the
bandwidth isn't so good.
And again, this is what Shaka
Player is going to do for you.
So I don't have
to do that, which
is brilliant, because it's
code I don't want to write.
Now you can see the requests are
for the 360 video and the 360
audio.
That's what it's decided
I actually want--
cool.
So that's kind of like the
DASH side completely sorted.
Let's have a quick chat
about the HLS as well.
In my script further down,
I take those 720, 540,
and 360 videos, and
I call this media
file segmenter,
which is something
you can get downloaded from
the Apple Developer Portal.
And what that does is
it will slice and dice
the different videos into a
particular formats for you.
This M3U8, you can this
is like a playlist file.
If we actually go
and have a look--
let's have a look, 720.m3u8.
I don't really know what
I'm looking at other than I
can see that this is
like three seconds
and it tells you which
sequence of files.
And you see it makes all these
files in the process of running
media file segmenter.
So that does that bit.
And then after that, I
move some stuff around.
But then you call
variantplaylistcreator,
which is another one of these
tools that comes with the Apple
downloads that you get.
And you pass it--
the three playlists in
my case, but all the
playlists that you've made, and
it makes one master playlist
which looks like this.
And that is
essentially, I guess,
roughly equivalent
to the DASH manifest.
I mean, on the technical
side it won't be.
But for Android and desktop
Chrome and desktop Safari
and whatever, you can just use
MSE, and that will just work.
So you've got the DASH
manifest for those.
But for iOS Safari
today, you do need
to create one of these M3U8.
It's the equivalent,
I guess, of the M3U8.
On the code side, if,
for whatever reason,
we get an error from loading the
manifest-- which should happen,
I believe on iOS,
because it will go oh, I
tried to load the
DASH manifest and I
tried to do all that stuff
and, it's just not working,
I have a fallback that just
says, OK, switch across to HLS,
which is where you
get that M3U8 file
and you just say
video.source equals M3U8.
So it's actually very,
very straightforward
to use, very convenient to use.
And iOS Safari will
just kind of go,
oh sure, and it'll start
adapting and getting
the right things for you.
So you don't you have to do
an awful lot with HLS other
than point your video element
at the M3U8 playlist file.
I think the upside of DASH is
that Shaka Player can manage
the bandwidth and you get
to have a little bit more
of a say on what bandwidth
you think it should have
and which track you
think it should lock into
and all those kinds of
things, if you want to.
With HLS, it's much
more like the user-agent
just kind of goes,
I've got less.
And if it decides to
download the entire video,
there isn't much,
as the developer,
that you can say
other than, sure.
So it is worth knowing that
that's what's going to happen.
I mean there's nothing you
can do about it particularly.
The only way I've found
actually to at least tweak it
a little bit is to say
on the video element
that you do preload
equals metadata.
If you don't set the
preload attribute,
it will go off and download
all of the content, which may
or may not be what you want.
So there you go--
right.
I'm aware that I've taken
up quite a bit of your time,
but I still want to show
you the offline stuff.
So I hope you stick around.
I hope you're enjoying this.
Let's have a quick
look at what it does,
what we require for the
offline stuff to work.
So at the moment everything's
just going off to the network.
And the idea was, what if
we could prefetch everything
into the cache--
into a cache, so that
when the request goes out
for that part of the MP4
file, say in the DASH version,
that the service worker could
be like, oh yeah, I got this.
This is already in the cache.
I'll just create that.
I'll handle that range request.
I'll get the item
out of the cache,
get that bit of the file,
and then just send it back.
So it's kind of transparent
as far as Shaka is concerned.
We just kind of go,
just get that video
and it will go off and do it.
Enough chatter.
Let's look a little bit of--
hang on, let me
get my words right.
Let's look at some code.
There we are.
You wouldn't have thought
it was so difficult to say,
but apparently, for me, yes.
Here we are.
Service worker-- this is my
service worker as it is today.
And this is really
the interesting bit.
So imagine that
this fetch is called
on every time a request
is made from the page.
OK, cool.
What we do is we do a
match against the caches.
And if there's a
match, we'll handle it.
If not we'll just do
like a pass through.
So what we need to do is figure
out, well, at what situation
would we call the caches.match
and get something back?
And the answer is, when there
is something in the caches.
So if we went off and got the
video and audio and everything
else that we'd made and
put those into the cache,
then we'd get a cache hit.
One thing I discovered-- and
I was very grateful to Jake,
Jake Archibald.
If you don't know him,
you should follow him
on Twitter and all that.
And he was helping me figure
out how I should actually
handle the range response.
Remember I said that
when we make the request,
it's a range request.
We only ask for a
certain byte range.
When we get a cache match,
we get a cache match
for the whole thing.
So if we just say, well,
return whatever the cache has,
rather than returning
just those bytes,
you'd actually return the
entire video, which is not
what was actually asked for.
We were only asked for bytes
from, say, zero to a thousand,
for example.
So we actually have
to do that ourselves.
So what I do is I'm
taking Jake's code here.
And what we do is we
create a ranged response.
So that takes in the request.
And we find it from the cache.
But what we do is we call
dot array buffer on it.
And that gets us
the entire video.
We'll come back to
that in a moment.
And then what we have
is some code that
looks through the
range header and goes,
OK, which bytes did
they actually want?
And then that gets sliced
out from that array buffer.
We set the status
to 206, which I
think is something like partial
content, or partial response,
or something along
those lines that says,
you're not getting
the whole thing.
You're just getting
that little bit
that you asked for
with the range request.
And we set a couple
of other headers
like the content-length
and the content-range.
And then we return that instead.
For me, this is
a bit unpleasant,
not only because there's
a bunch of code in here
that could error, I
guess, could go wrong,
but mostly because
calling dot array
buffer at the moment
on the response
would get me the whole video.
So if it's like a one
gig video, calling
dot array buffer will get me a
one gig array buffer in memory
for every request.
And the solution
here, I think, is
going to be to slice
and dice the video.
Instead of one big
file in the cache,
actually have lots
of different files,
like smaller chunks
inside the cache.
And then just pull
out the chunks
that we need to make
the ranged response.
We'll see how that goes when
we actually get to production
and how big the videos are and
whether it's actually a thing.
But I fully expect to
actually have to do that.
I should also
mention, by the way,
that there is an offline
implementation already in Shaka
which uses IndexedDB
to do its thing.
So that takes care of it.
But it doesn't use a
service worker today.
It's all in the foreground.
It populates IndexedDB.
But it also does all the bits
and pieces like if you've got
[INAUDIBLE] licenses--
which again,
I don't understand fully--
it will store those
for you as well--
right.
Let me just show you,
though what it actually
looks like when you do this.
So when I hit cache
video, hopefully--
oh, it's set to the regular 3G.
Let's do no throttling.
Oh if only life was actually
like that where you just
go no throttling, phew.
You see now we've
got the cached video.
So if I just clear that
and start running it,
now all the requests are
coming from the service worker.
Essentially it's doing its job.
The service worker
is stepping in,
and rather than going
out to the network,
it's actually creating the
response from the cache.
So that's a way to
transparently provide
the video to the Shaka Player.
So all this code--
in fact the whole site
code at the moment,
let me show you this,
is up on GitHub.
You can get it at
github.com/googlechrome/sample
media pwa.
We will link to that
in the notes below.
If you want to have a play
around with the prototype,
I'll add a prototypes folder to
this so you can at least see,
roughly speaking, what I've
been doing and go from there.
In the meanwhile, have fun.
I will be back very, very
soon with an exploration
of what I've been doing
on the server side.
Catch you later.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hey folks, thanks for watching.
Don't forget that there
is more content that you
can find kind of over here-ish.
And if you want to
subscribe, there's
probably a button, well, maybe
there, maybe somewhere around
there.
Click that if you've
not done that.
Brilliant.
[MUSIC PLAYING]